---
slug: hola
title: Balancing Life with Learning to Code
author: Trae Hodge
author_title: Balancing Life with Learning to Code
tags: [life, learning, code]
---

# Balancing Life with Learning to Code

Don’t you wish things could be so simple? I mean, life is already challenging;
what strange person would add learning to code on top of that? Oh me, I’m that
crazy person. Twenty-nine years old, married, working full time with a baby on
the way. And as of May 2021, I decided to take the road less traveled learning
to code.

I’m doing this because there is an opportunity to help others who may be in the
same situation and have the desire to learn. Fortunately, I found a software
engineer willing to teach me to code. You may be reading this and say to
yourself, “if only I had that opportunity.” Trust me, I’m not taking this
lightly, but there seems to be one hurdle that is tough to get over. Being able
to balance all that life throws at me while learning something new like coding.
How do I make time to learn to code with only 24 hours in a day?

In this time, I’ve learned four steps to finding balance in your life while
learning to code. First, there is the decision which is the most significant
step. You have to decide for yourself that you will learn to code. If you treat
this like another side project you are doing, you will get side project results.
Along with making the decision, you want to have a clear picture of what you
want to get out of learning code. What’s the purpose of you learning this new
world? Is it money, a new skill? You must ask yourself these questions because
this is what you will hold on to when you are ready to give up. The second step
is time management. If only we could have more time, but we can’t. So we must
learn how to manage the time we have and make the best use of it. What has
helped me most is my 168 hour time management worksheet. This allows me to see
my days in fifteen-minute increments, so I am making sure I use each hour in a
day wisely.

The third is having the right environment. This one can be a bit off-putting
because you have to put yourself out into a world you don’t know much about.
It’s like trying to make friends at a new school in a new country. You don’t
look the same, don’t speak the same language, you stick out like a sore thumb.
Here’s the thing, you can’t be afraid of this step because this can be the key
to broadening your circle of influence and being exposed to things you may not
have been exposed to. Even for me being a super friendly person able to spark up
a conversation with anybody, I still feel uncomfortable with this step. Push
forward because you never know who is on the other side of that computer. The
last step goes great with the previous one. They go hand in hand.
Accountability. You need someone that will hold you accountable for learning to
code. Coding isn’t always exciting, and there will be times you feel you have
better things to do. Still, if you have an accountability partner, you will have
that someone to push you along the way when times get tough, or you don’t feel
like getting on the computer and trying to figure out the same problem you’ve
been dealing with for the past two days. Trust me, there are many times I don’t
want to hop on, but I think about standing in front of the judge (my
accountability partner) and telling the jury I am guilty of not doing what I
said I would do. That’s the worst feeling, but I need it to keep me on track.

Here’s something to keep in mind. You can do anything you put your mind to; Just
continue to put one foot in front of the other, and you will get to that place
in life. Go to my social media platforms listed below for more content like
this, how-to videos, or just to see my progress to tag along.
Instagram:@codeincolor
